README.md, before:

# Information
Python version 3.10 and Ubuntu 22.04 were used for this and recomended.
## Description
![ETL]
Simple ETL using Apache Airflow, Kafka and AWS using the [randomuser API][API]. Messages are delivered every 5 minutes and data output is randomized from 1 to 150 inputs. 

## Tools Used:  
  * Apache Kafka
  * Apache Airflow 
  * AWS EC2
  * AWS RDS
  * PostgreSQL Database

## Setup
As mentioned before make sure you are using Python 3.10, >=3.6 might also work, but not advised. First install all of the dependencies. Clone this repo into `~/bin/de_projects/` for this to work out best. Otherwise, you will need to edit `userd_dag.py` and the files in the `data_collectors/` directory to reflect the location of this project.

### Python Requirements

Airflow:  
Taken from the [airflow quickstart guide][AIRFLOW_QS].
``` bash
# Exporting home is optional unless you want it to be in a specific place
export AIRFLOW_HOME=~/airflow
# Set version of Airflow
AIRFLOW_VERSION=2.7.2
# Get Python version, should be 3.10
PYTHON_VERSION="$(python --version | cut -d " " -f 2 | cut -d "." -f 1-2)"
# Constraint URL for installation
CONSTRAINT_URL="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/airflow/constraints-${AIRFLOW_VERSION}/constraints-${PYTHON_VERSION}.txt"
# Installation
pip install "apache-airflow==${AIRFLOW_VERSION}" --constraint "${CONSTRAINT_URL}"
```

confluent_kafka:
``` bash
pip install confluent-kafka
```

sqlalchemy:
``` bash
pip install sqlalchemy
pip install psycopg2-binary
```

### Confluent Cloud
* Create a Confluent Cloud account and make a cluster, you can use default environment.  
![CREATE_CLUSTER]

* Then create topics inside the cluster, all with the names as shown here:
![CREATE_TOPIC]

* Finally, create a client to commuinicate with your code and the kafka topics. Create and save the SASL username and password.  
![CREATE_CLIENT]

You can then create a config.py file inside the main project, and store it in a config directory inside of the project folder.  
Here's what it might look like:
``` python
config = {
  "bootstrap.servers": "<YOUR_BOOTSTRAP_SERVER_NAME>",
  "security_protocol": "SASL_SSL",
  "sasl.mechanisms": "PLAIN",
  "sasl.username": "<YOUR_SASL_USERNAME>",
  "sasl.password": "<YOUR_SASL_PASSWORD>",
}
```

### Database
You can use a simple postgres container using docker. If you don't have docker, follow [this guide][DOCKER_CE_INSTALL] to install Docker CE. If you want to go another route, you could use the sink from confluent cloud and attatch it to a RDS instance. In that case all of this database management stuff is not necessary, and the `consumer_node` part of `userd_dag` and the `random_data_gen_consumer` file is not necessary.

``` bash
docker run --name <NAME_OF_CONTAINER> -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=<YOUR_PASSWORD> -p 5432:5432 -d postgres:latest
```

This will run the latest version of PostgreSQL in a docker container. To access, use the Postgres url syntax: "postgresql://postgres:<YOUR_PASSWORD>@localhost:5432".

### Configuration
Go into the `config/` directory in the main project. Then, you can add username.txt, password.txt, and ip_address.txt into it. Ideally, these files would be encrypted and for safety, but since this is a small project, it should be fine.
```
echo postgres > username.txt
echo localhost > ip_address.txt
echo <YOUR_POSTRGRESQL_PASSWORD> > password.txt
```

## Running the DAGs
Copy `data_collectors/user_data_etl_dag.py` and `utilizing_airflow/userd_dag.py` to your dags folder, in this case I will use `~/airflow`.
``` bash
# DAG with functions in files V               V DAG with all functions inside of it
cp {data_collectors/user_data_etl_dag.py,utilizing_airflow/userd_dag.py} ~/airflow/dags/
```

Then run `airflow db migrate` and make sure there are no errors. Then you can run the scheduler and let that baby run. 
Scheduler:
```
airflow scheduler
```

## Closing
I learnt a lot about airflow and kafka while creating this project, the overall process was quite fun as well. I also used the sink feature and tested out a private RDS instance using a EC2 instance using security groups and subnets.  

If you want to add anything to this project, don't hesitate to make a pull request!  
Thanks for checking out my project!

[API]: http://randomuser.me/

[ETL]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nishal3/ETL-using-randomuser-api/assets/User_Data_ETL.jpeg

[AIRFLOW_QS]: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/start.html

[DOCKER_CE_INSTALL]: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/

[CREATE_CLUSTER]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nishal3/ETL-using-randomuser-api/assets/create_cluster.jpg

[CREATE_TOPIC]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nishal3/ETL-using-randomuser-api/assets/create_topics.jpg

[CREATE_CLIENT]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nishal3/ETL-using-randomuser-api/assets/create_client.jpg

Commit message:

Add how to create DB and tables in readme and edit table_creation.py so it creates a database

README.md, after:

# Information
Python version 3.10 and Ubuntu 22.04 were used for this and recomended.
## Description
![ETL]
Simple ETL using Apache Airflow, Kafka and AWS using the [randomuser API][API]. Messages are delivered every 5 minutes and data output is randomized from 1 to 150 inputs. 

## Technology Used:  
  * Apache Kafka
  * Apache Airflow 
  * PostgreSQL Database
  * Bash
  * AWS EC2
  * AWS RDS

## Setup
As mentioned before make sure you are using Python 3.10, >=3.6 might also work, but not advised. Clone this repo into `~/bin/de_projects/` for this to work out best. Otherwise, you will need to edit some. First install all of the dependencies.

### Python Requirements

Airflow:  
Taken from the [airflow quickstart guide][AIRFLOW_QS].
``` bash
# Exporting home is optional unless you want it to be in a specific place
export AIRFLOW_HOME=~/airflow
# Set version of Airflow
AIRFLOW_VERSION=2.7.2
# Get Python version, should be 3.10
PYTHON_VERSION="$(python --version | cut -d " " -f 2 | cut -d "." -f 1-2)"
# Constraint URL for installation
CONSTRAINT_URL="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/airflow/constraints-${AIRFLOW_VERSION}/constraints-${PYTHON_VERSION}.txt"
# Installation
pip install "apache-airflow==${AIRFLOW_VERSION}" --constraint "${CONSTRAINT_URL}"
```

confluent_kafka:
``` bash
pip install confluent-kafka
```

sqlalchemy:
``` bash
pip install sqlalchemy
pip install psycopg2-binary
```

### Confluent Cloud
* Create a Confluent Cloud account and make a cluster, you can use default environment.  
![CREATE_CLUSTER]

* Then create topics inside the cluster, all with the names as shown here:
![CREATE_TOPIC]

* Finally, create a client to commuinicate with your code and the kafka topics. Create and save the SASL username and password.  
![CREATE_CLIENT]

You can then create a config.py file inside the main project, and store it in a config directory inside of the project folder.  
Here's what it might look like:
``` python
config = {
  "bootstrap.servers": "<YOUR_BOOTSTRAP_SERVER_NAME>",
  "security_protocol": "SASL_SSL",
  "sasl.mechanisms": "PLAIN",
  "sasl.username": "<YOUR_SASL_USERNAME>",
  "sasl.password": "<YOUR_SASL_PASSWORD>",
}
```

### Database
You can run a simple postgres container using docker. If you don't have docker, follow [this guide][DOCKER_CE_INSTALL] to install Docker CE. If you want to go another route, you could use the sink from confluent cloud and attatch it to a RDS instance. In that case all of this database management stuff is not necessary, and the `consumer_node` part of `userd_dag` and the `random_data_gen_consumer` file is not necessary.

``` bash
docker run --name <NAME_OF_CONTAINER> -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=<YOUR_PASSWORD> -p 5432:5432 -d postgres:latest
```

This will run the latest version of PostgreSQL in a docker container. To access, use the Postgres url syntax: "postgresql://postgres:<YOUR_PASSWORD>@localhost:5432".

### Configuration
Go into the `config/` directory in the main project. Then, you can add username.txt, password.txt, and ip_address.txt into it. Ideally, these files would be encrypted and for safety, but since this is a small project, it should be fine.
```
echo postgres > username.txt
echo localhost > ip_address.txt
echo <YOUR_POSTRGRESQL_PASSWORD> > password.txt
```

You first need to set up your database and tables, for this run the `table_creation.py` file located in the `assistant_functions` directory, if everything was set up correctly, you should get this output:
``` bash
python table_creation.py
"CONNECTED"
"SUCCESSFULLY CREATED DATABASE"
"SUCCESSFULLY CREATED TABLES"
```

## Running the DAGs
Copy `data_collectors/user_data_etl_dag.py` and `utilizing_airflow/userd_dag.py` to your dags folder, in this case I will use `~/airflow`.
``` bash
# DAG with functions in files V               V DAG with all functions inside of it
cp {data_collectors/user_data_etl_dag.py,utilizing_airflow/userd_dag.py} ~/airflow/dags/
```

Then run `airflow db migrate` and make sure there are no errors. Then you can run the scheduler and let that baby run. 
Scheduler:
```
airflow scheduler
```

## Closing
I learnt a lot about airflow and kafka while creating this project, the overall process was quite fun as well. I also used the sink feature and tested out a private RDS instance using a EC2 instance using security groups and subnets.  

If you want to add anything to this project, don't hesitate to make a pull request!  
Thanks for checking out my project!

[API]: http://randomuser.me/

[ETL]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nishal3/ETL-using-randomuser-api/assets/User_Data_ETL.jpeg

[AIRFLOW_QS]: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/start.html

[DOCKER_CE_INSTALL]: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/

[CREATE_CLUSTER]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nishal3/ETL-using-randomuser-api/assets/create_cluster.jpg

[CREATE_TOPIC]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nishal3/ETL-using-randomuser-api/assets/create_topics.jpg

[CREATE_CLIENT]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nishal3/ETL-using-randomuser-api/assets/create_client.jpg
